Add `osu! World Cup 2023: Quarterfinals Recap` news post (#10474)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-11-16-osu-world-cup-2023-quarterfinals-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu! World Cup 2023: Quarterfinals Recap"
date: 2023-11-16 12:00:00 +0000
---

> Tune in to catch up on the latest upsets and heartbreaks (of which there were many), and prepare yourself for the upcoming semifinals weekend.

Reviewer: > latest upsets and heartbreaks

i feel like it might be better/more balanced to have a positive/neutral + negative term rather than 2 consecutive negative ones

Author: [Discussed here](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/1174704027037077504) I will leave open if anyone wants to further discuss this or suggest a change

Reviewer 2: i think this is pretty ok as is

![](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2023/img/owc2023-banner.jpg)

Do you remember the crazy quarterfinals stage of the [2021 osu! World Cup](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2021#quarterfinals.1), including five tiebreakers? Not as many were needed the past weekend, but the amount of upsets and close battles made up for it and delivered one of the most entertaining stages in some years.

> As so many highlights needed to be included, the recap video is longer than usual. In case you just need a quick update, look below for the most outstanding matches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because so many exciting moments would've each constituted a crime not to highlight, the recap video is longer than usual. In case you just need a quick update, read on below for the most outstanding matches.
```

<div align="center">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZkIb6p3_n6g" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

### ::{ flag=RO }:: Romania vs. ::{ flag=FR }:: France

[**View the VOD here!**](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/1974857501?t=03h39m18s)

> Romania, the grim reaper of the lower bracket in the past few years, faced France for an elimination battle, and the match turned out to be neck and neck as expected. However, both teams struggled with winning their own picks, as six break points happened up to the scoreline of 4–4, including three cases of less than 80k points difference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Romania, the grim reaper of the lower bracket in the past few years, faced France for an elimination battle, and the match turned out to be neck and neck as expected. However, both teams struggled with winning their own picks, as six break points happened up to the scoreline of 4–4, including three cases of score differences less than 80k points.
```

> At this point, this game could have gone either way. On the French HD2 pick ([BUTAOTOME - Street Journal](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085341#osu/4368631)), ::{ flag=RO }:: [badeu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1473890) tried his very best to carry his team with a mind-boggling FC, but the rest of the Romania roster could not provide enough support. Consequently, a win on [yuikonnu - Taifuu Ikka? Risan](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085338#osu/4368609) was desperately needed to force the tiebreaker. It looked good for the Eastern European team until the caster curse struck badeu — and ::{ flag=FR }:: [Fiaee](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10325072)'s FC was able to bring back the lead, and thus the victory in a last-ditch effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, this game could have gone either way. On the French HD2 pick ([BUTAOTOME - Street Journal](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085341#osu/4368631)), ::{ flag=RO }:: [badeu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1473890) tried his very best to carry his team with a mind-boggling FC, but the rest of the Romania roster could not provide enough support. Consequently, a win on [yuikonnu - Taifuu Ikka? Risan](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085338#osu/4368609) was desperately needed to force the tiebreaker. It looked good for the Eastern European team until the caster curse struck badeu — with ::{ flag=FR }:: [Fiaee](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10325072)'s FC being able to bring back the lead, and thus the victory in a last-ditch effort.
```

slightly reworded so sentence with the em dash reads better

> Nevertheless, both teams did not make it through the quarterfinals. The #23 seed from Sweden had an exceptional weekend, eliminating both Hong Kong and France from the tournament.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, neither team made it through the Quarterfinals. The #23 seed from Sweden had an exceptional weekend, eliminating both Hong Kong and France from the tournament.
```

### ::{ flag=PL }:: Poland vs ::{ flag=AU }:: Australia

[**View the VOD here!**](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/1975435768)

> ::{ flag=PL }:: [maliszewski](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12408961) and ::{ flag=AU }:: [mrekk](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7562902), two of the greatest solo tournament players to ever grace this game were about to settle once again who could carry harder in a 4v4 setting. It was the Australian roster getting the 3–0 head start with an unbeatable 4.3 million team score on [Umeri - paranoia](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085311#osu/4368554), meanwhile the Polish team were just barely able to win their own picks for a 2–4 score. In a slightly worse case for them, this could have been a clean sweep. Still, Australia clutched out match point on the popular track [wowaka - Ura-Omote Lovers feat. Hatsune Miku](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1872527#osu/3853099).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
::{ flag=PL }:: [maliszewski](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12408961) and ::{ flag=AU }:: [mrekk](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7562902), two of the greatest solo tournament players to ever grace this game, were about to settle once again who could carry harder in a 4v4 setting. It was the Australian roster getting the 3–0 head start with an unbeatable 4.3 million team score on [Umeri - paranoia](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085311#osu/4368554, while the Polish team were just barely able to win their own picks for a 2–4 score. In a slightly worse case for them, this could have been a clean sweep. Still, Australia clutched out match point on the popular track [wowaka - Ura-Omote Lovers feat. Hatsune Miku](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1872527#osu/3853099).
```

### ::{ flag=US }:: USA vs ::{ flag=CA }:: Canada

[**View the VOD here!**](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/1975815592)

Canada kicked Germany down the bracket last round already in a crazy exchange of break points. Apparently, the Canadians were not stopping against the American team either as they went for a clear 4–0 lead. This massive gap was provided by the breakthrough performance of rookie ::{ flag=CA }:: [CutPaper](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10975777), who had a higher score on [tsunamix_underground - Period. ~ Seishin no Kousoku to Jiyuu o Tsukamu Jouka (Cut Ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1594769#osu/3257371) than the rest of their team combined.

> The USA needed a quick reply and the extremely consistent player named ::{ flag=US }:: [Rektygon](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7813296) carried his team to the first break point on [Motoki Zakuro - Chiteki Goukansha ver-C](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085316#osu/4368565). However, it didn't take long for the Canadian squad to answer, defending against another FC by Rektygon on [lapix - Horizon Blue feat. Kanata.N](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/974832#osu/2040486) and bringing them to match point. Once again, CutPaper, together with ::{ flag=CA }:: [xootynator](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3717598) showed a stellar performance and converted the first match point into an unexpected 6–1 victory. The US team has never gone down to the loser's bracket this early.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The USA needed a quick reply and the extremely consistent player named ::{ flag=US }:: [Rektygon](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7813296) carried his team to the first break point on [Motoki Zakuro - Chiteki Goukansha ver-C](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2085316#osu/4368565). However, it didn't take long for the Canadian squad to answer, defending against another FC by Rektygon on [lapix - Horizon Blue feat. Kanata.N](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/974832#osu/2040486) and bringing them to match point. Once again, CutPaper, together with ::{ flag=CA }:: [xootynator](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3717598) showed a stellar performance and converted the first match point into an unexpected 6–1 victory. The US team has never gone down to the losers' bracket this early.
```

---

> The semifinals are going to be brutal to watch. Due to the bracket structure, either Russia or Germany will not be able to make it through. The same goes to the seeds #2 and #3, Poland and USA respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Semifinals are going to be brutal to watch. Due to the bracket structure, either Russia or Germany will not be able to make it through. The same goes to seeds #2 and #3, Poland and USA respectively.
```
